Atal Pension Yojana (APY) – PFRDA | Government-Backed Retirement Scheme for Unorganized Sector - PFRDA
Alerts
List of Holidays to be...
Same-Day Investment of NPS Contributions...
Tender Document: हिन्दी REQUEST FOR...
Tender Document: REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL...
Circular - Permitting the Point...
Pension Fund Regulatory And Development...
Pension Fund Regulatory And Development...
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development...
Tender Document:_SITC_Network_Equipment_Mumbai_Office
PFRDA (REGISTRATION OF PENSION FUNDS)...
NOTICE INVITING PROPOSALS FOR SELECTION...
Circular - Introduction of NPS...
Enhancement of Investment Choice Options...
PRESS Release - PFRDA Sets...
Pre-Bid Responses: ENGAGEMENT OF TRAINING...
Government Extends Additional NPS Investment...
Engagement of a Legal Adviser...
Keynote Address at Bombay Chamber's...
(Hindi) Engagement of a Legal...
Corrigendum (English): ENGAGEMENT OF TRAINING...
View All
About Us
Authority
About Authority Meeting Minutes
History
Organization
Organogram Departments Reservation Roster Staff Directory Disclosures
Regulatory Framework
Compendium Act Rules Regulations Notifications Guidelines
Master Circulars
Active Archived
Circulars
Active Archived
Orders and Notices
General Orders Enforcement Orders Notices
Exposure Draft Reports
Schemes
NPS Government Sector
About NPS Central Government Central Autonomous Bodies State Government State Autonomous Bodies
NPS Non-Government Sector
About NPS All Citizen Model Superannuation Funds Corporate NPS Lite
NPS Vatsalya Unified Pension Scheme (UPS) Atal Pension Yojana (APY)
Intermediaries
Registered Intermediaries
NPS Trust Central Recordkeeping Agency Pension Funds Trustee Bank Custodian Point of Presence Retirement Advisors
Empaneled Entities
Annuity Service Provider
Research
Pension Bulletin
Statistics
Handbook Statistical Data
Research
Development Research Group External Data Request
Consultation Papers Working Papers Research & Publications Annual Reports Newsletters IRCP
Media
Press Releases
Chairperson's Interviews
Chairperson's Video Chairperson's Speeches
Gallery
Image Gallery Video Gallery Publicity Material
Contest Hackathon
Financial Literacy
Pension Sanchay Subscriber Education Retirement Planner Scheme Trainings NPS PRIDE - DISHA
Grievance
About Grievance Pension Sahayak - Lodge Grievance Track Grievance
Atal Pension Yojana (APY)
Atal Pension Yojana (APY) Overview
The Government of India has introduced a pension scheme called the Atal Pension Yojana (APY), with effect from 1st June, 2015, pursuant to the announcement in the budget for 2015-16 on creating a universal social security system for all Indians, especially the poor, the under-privileged and the workers in the unorganised sector.
Eligibility & Administration
APY is available to all Indian citizens with savings bank account in banks or Department of Posts.
The minimum age of joining APY is 18 years and maximum age is 40 years.
Provided that from 1st October, 2022, any citizen who is or has been an income-tax payer, is not eligible to join APY.
APY is being administered by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) under the overall administrative and institutional architecture of the National Pension System (NPS).The scheme is being implemented through Public Sector Banks, Private Banks, Regional Rural Banks, Small Finance Banks, Payments Banks, Co-operative Banks and Department of Posts.
Features of APY
APY is a voluntary, periodic contribution-based pension system, under which, the subscriber is entitled to receive the following benefits (also called the triple benefits):
Central Government guaranteed minimum pension amount: Each subscriber under APY shall receive a Central Government guaranteed minimum pension of Rs. 1000 per month or Rs. 2000 per month or Rs. 3000 per month or Rs. 4000 per month or Rs. 5000 per month, after the age of 60 years until death.
Central Government guaranteed minimum pension amount to the spouse: After the subscriber’s demise, the spouse of the subscriber shall be entitled to receive the same pension amount as that of the subscriber until the death of the spouse.
Return of the pension wealth to the nominee of the subscriber: After the demise of both the subscriber and the spouse, the nominee of the subscriber shall be entitled to receive the pension wealth, as accumulated till age 60 of the subscriber.
The subscribers are required to contribute the prescribed contribution amount from the age of joining APY till age 60 to enjoy the triple benefits.
Join APY
An APY account can be opened by filling out the APY Registration Form, which is available at bank branches and post offices. After filling it out, submit the form to the corresponding bank branch or post office.
Alternatively, an interested subscriber can join online through eAPY. Click Here to open account online.
APY Reports
Accessing APY Dashboard MIS: A Step-by-Step Guide
For APY-SPs: https://apy.nps-proteantech.in/CRAlite/ The APY Dashboard MIS (in summary form) is now available in the APY SPs login. APY SPs are requested to download the APY Dashboard MIS from the Dashboard Menu. Follow these steps to download the MIS:
Login: APY Dashboard Login
Enter User ID and Password
Navigate to Dashboard Menu: Go to Manual MIS report and select Download the Report
Open the Excel File: After downloading, open the file by entering the NLOO Reg. No allotted to your APY POP office.
Ensure you use an upgraded version of MS Excel (.xlsx or .xlsb) if the screen appears blank.
For SLBC/UTLBCs: https://apy.nps-proteantech.in/CRAlite/ SLBC/UTLBCs and LDMs can access various APY reports for better monitoring at APY Dashboard using the User ID and Password provided in individual emails sent to SLBC/UTLBC/LDM.
APY Social Media
Social Media Links of the APY Advertisement Video
X: https://x.com/PFRDAOfficial
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/OfficialAPY/posts/725638848069967
Instagram: https://www.intagram.com/apyindia/
Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nP8fOal2S9A
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/35586125/admin/
Share this page
Share On
Copy URL
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority
GST No. 07AAALP0291L1ZU
Get to know
Investor Charter
Website Policies
Tenders
Careers
Holidays
Pension Cyber Spotlight
Compliance
राजभाषा
Vigilance
POSH
SHe-Box
Right to Information
Help & Accessibility
Web Information Manager
Help & Support
FAQs
Glossary
Forms
Subscription
Feedback
Contact Us
Survey
Related Links
Govt of India
Dept of Financial Services
RBI
SEBI
IRDAI
IFSCA
NCFE
IOPS
The translations of the materials have been undertaken by Digital India Bhashini Division. While every effort to maintain and verify the accuracy of the translated material has been made, PFRDA shall not be liable to any third party action/claim. Users may use the published material at their own risk.
This website is owned, designed, and developed by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority , PFRDA. The content posted on this website is owned and maintained by the respective divisions and departments under PFRDA.
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience, serve personalized content, and analyze our traffic. By clicking "Accept All Cookies," you consent to our use of cookies. You can manage your cookie preferences by clicking "Cookie Settings."
Visit our Privacy Policy