PMAY-HFA(Urban)
×
WebSites
MoHUA
PMAY (URBAN)
GHTC INDIA
CLAP PORTAL
Mobile App
Bhuvan App
AHP App
GHTC-INDIA App
PMAY(U)
OTHERS
Download Adobe
Reader
Download Winzip
Data Entered
Contact Us
PMAY(Urban) - Progress
Lakhs
Houses Sanctioned
Lakhs
Houses Grounded
Lakhs
Houses Completed
Lakh Cr.
Central Assistance
Commited
Cr.
Central Assistance
Released
Lakh Cr.
Total Investment
Latest News
:
NIC has developed a new module to capture the payments made to the beneficiaries through multiple instalments as per the Mission directions
Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojna
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban (PMAY-U)(19) a flagship Mission of Government of India being implemented by Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), was launched on 25th June 2015. The Mission addresses urban housing shortage among the EWS/LIG and MIG categories including the slum dwellers by ensuring a pucca house to all eligible urban households by the year 2022, when Nation completes 75 years of its Independence.
Affordable Rental Housing Complexes
Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs has initiated Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs), a sub-scheme under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U). This will provide ease of living to urban migrants/ poor in Industrial Sector as well as in non-formal urban economy to get access to dignified affordable rental housing close to their workplace.
Global Housing Technology Challenge – India
MoHUA has initiated the Global Housing Technology Challenge - India (GHTC-India) which aims to identify and mainstream a basket of innovative construction technologies from across the globe for housing construction sector that are sustainable, eco-friendly and disaster-resilient.
Light House Project
Enroll as TechnoGrahi
CLSS Awas Portal (CLAP)
A web based monitoring system, CLSS Awas Portal (CLAP) is a common platform where all stakeholders i.e. MoHUA, Central Nodal Agencies, Primary Lending Institutions, Beneficiaries and Citizens are integrated in real time environment. The portal facilitates processing of applications along with tracking of subsidy status by beneficiaries. CLSS tracker has also been incorporated in PMAY(U) mobile App and UMANG platform.
CLSS TRACKER
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban)-PMAY (U)
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) Mission launched on 25th June 2015 which intends to provide housing for all in urban areas
by year 2022. The Mission provides Central Assistance to the implementing agencies through States/Union Territories (UTs) and
Central Nodal Agencies (CNAs) for providing houses to all eligible families/ beneficiaries against the validated demand for houses for
about 1.12 cr. As per PMAY(U) guidelines, the size of a house for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) could be upto 30 sq. mt. carpet area, however States/UTs have the flexibility to enhance
the size of houses in consultation and approval of the Ministry.
In continuation to this Government’s efforts towards empowerment of women from EWS and LIG unlike earlier schemes, PMAY (U) has made a mandatory provision for the female head of the family
to be the owner or co-owner of the house under this Mission. Verticals of PMAY (Urban) A basket of options is adopted to ensure inclusion of a greater number of people depending on their income, finance and
availability of land through following four options.
Read More
News & Updates
Urban Transformation through Housing For All
Disclaimer
CLSS Toll-Free Helpline
PMAY MIS UserMannual PMAY MIS UserMannual PMAY MIS UserMannual
PMAY MIS Presentation
PMAY MIS Work Flow
Tweets by PMAYUrban
Event Gallery
‹
›
Content Owned & Maintained by Ministry of Housing and Urban
Affairs
Site is Designed, Developed and Maintained by NIC, GoI.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Hyperlinking Policy
Copyright Policy